# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

* [`profile_lvm`](#profile_lvm): Installs LVM software and wraps/provides defaults for the standalone lvm module.
* [`profile_lvm::bindmounts`](#profile_lvmbindmounts): Create bindmounts from (within) LVs on a directory

### Defined types

* [`profile_lvm::bindmount_resource`](#profile_lvmbindmount_resource): Create a bindmount from (within an) LV on a directory

## Classes

### <a name="profile_lvm"></a>`profile_lvm`

Installs LVM software and wraps/provides defaults for the standalone lvm module.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
include profile_lvm
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `profile_lvm` class:

* [`required_pkgs`](#required_pkgs)
* [`default_fs_type`](#default_fs_type)
* [`lvs`](#lvs)

##### <a name="required_pkgs"></a>`required_pkgs`

Data type: `Array`

Names of lvm package(s (usually lvm2).

##### <a name="default_fs_type"></a>`default_fs_type`

Data type: `String`

WARNING: default = xfs via data-in-module for this. Overrides default of ext4 from ::lvm module.
It would be better to not have a default (it's very dangerous, because if you don't specify the
fs_type and your existing LVM has a different type, it seems that it would reformat the fs. But
since the ::lvm module already has a default, let's override it with a better one for NCSA systems.

##### <a name="lvs"></a>`lvs`

Data type: `Hash[String[1],Hash ]`

Key-value pairs used to declare ::lvm::logical_volume resources. Lookup is merge, but not deep.
Form:
  keys = names of LVM resources (String)
  values = params for LVM resources (Hash)

BE VERY CAREFUL WITH WHAT YOU PUT IN HIERA FOR THIS CLASS/PARAMETER!
This is especially the case for LVMs that already exist (created manually or via xCAT). To
manage an existing LVM you'll generally* need to minimally specify:
  - mountpath
  - volume_group
(* Settings to configure LVM-based swap space would not include a mountpath, for instance, and
should specify fs_type to be 'swap'.)
MAKE SURE that the fs_type is/should be xfs otherwise override that as well. And be careful
if you specify size. You can often grow the LVM and its filesystem but generally cannot shrink
the filesystem. (The lvm module seems to error and refuse to try, which is good. But be
careful!)

It's intended for Hiera to do a hash merge but NOT a deep merge of the lvms param. This is
so we intentionally and clearly specify all required parameters at each level just to be safe.

NOTE: If you use this class to start managing an existing (definitely an xCAT-deployed) LVM
it will likely insist on cleaning up your mount in fstab, e.g.,:
  Notice: /Stage[main]/Stdcfg::Lvm/Lvm::Logical_volume[LVvar]/Mount[/var]/device:
    device changed '/dev/mapper/VGsystem-LVvar' to '/dev/VGsystem/LVvar'
  Notice: /Stage[main]/Stdcfg::Lvm/Lvm::Logical_volume[LVvar]/Mount[/var]/pass: pass changed '0' to '2'
This should not cause an actual remount.

### <a name="profile_lvmbindmounts"></a>`profile_lvm::bindmounts`

```
  profile_lvm::bindmounts::map:
    "/var/spool/slurmctld.state":
      #opts: "defaults,bind,noauto,ro"
      src_lv: "slurm"
      src_path: "/slurm/slurmctld.state"
```

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
include profile_lvm::bindmounts
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `profile_lvm::bindmounts` class:

* [`map`](#map)

##### <a name="map"></a>`map`

Data type: `Optional[ Hash ]`

mapping of bindmounts from LVs and their paths/sub-directories

Example hiera parameter:

Default value: ``undef``

## Defined types

### <a name="profile_lvmbindmount_resource"></a>`profile_lvm::bindmount_resource`

Assumes that we are bindmounting from an LV or sub-directory of
an LV.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
profile_lvm::bindmount_resource { "/var/spool/slurmctld.state":
  #opts      => "defaults,bind,noauto,ro"
  src_lv    => "slurm",
  src_path  => "/slurm/slurmctld.state",
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `profile_lvm::bindmount_resource` defined type:

* [`opts`](#opts)
* [`src_lv`](#src_lv)
* [`src_path`](#src_path)

##### <a name="opts"></a>`opts`

Data type: `String`

Mount options. MUST include 'bind'.

Default value: `'defaults,bind,noauto'`

##### <a name="src_lv"></a>`src_lv`

Data type: `String`

The LV we are bindmounting from.

##### <a name="src_path"></a>`src_path`

Data type: `String`

The location we are bindmounting from (either same as
mountpoint of src_lv or a sub-directory).

